=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

udevil - mount, unmount, and monitor devices as a normal user

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<udevil> [B<OPTIONS>] B<COMMAND> [B<COMMAND OPTIONS>] [B<COMMAND ARGUMENTS>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<udevil> mounts and unmounts removable devices and networks without a password
(set suid), shows device info, monitors device changes.  Emulates mount's and
udisks's command line usage and udisks v1's output.  Includes the L<devmon(1)>
automounting daemon.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<--verbose>

Print details.

=item B<--quiet>

Minimal output.

=back

=head1 COMMANDS

=over

=item B<mount> | B<--mount> [I<MOUNT OPTIONS>] [[B<-b> | B<--block-device>] I<DEVICE>] [I<DIR>]

Mount I<DEVICE> to mount point I<DIR> with specified I<MOUNT OPTIONS>.

Mount options:

=over

=item B<-t> | B<--types> | B<--filesystem-type> | B<--mount-fstype> I<TYPE>

See L<mount(1)> manual page.

=item B<-o> | B<--options> | B<--mount-options> I<OPT>[,...]

See L<mount(1)> manual page.

=item B<--no-user-interaction>

Ignored (for compatibility).

=back

=item B<umount> | B<unmount> | B<--umount> | B<--unmount> [I<UNMOUNT OPTIONS>] {[B<-b> | B<--block-device>] I<DEVICE>} | I<DIR>

Unmount I<DEVICE> or I<DIR> with I<UNMOUNT OPTIONS>.

Unmount options:

=over

=item B<-l>

Lazy unmount.
See L<umount(1)> manual page.

=item B<-f>

Force unmount.
See L<umount(1)> manual page.

=item B<--no-user-interaction>

Ignored (for compatibility).

=back

=item B<info> | B<--show-info> | B<--info> [B<-b> | B<--block-device>] I<DEVICE>

Show information about I<DEVICE> emulating udisks v1 output.

=item B<monitor> | B<--monitor>

Display device events emulating udisks v1 output.

=item B<clean>

Remove unmounted udevil-created mount dirs in media dirs.

=item B<help> | B<--help> | B<-h>

Show help message.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Mount

=over

=item Generic:

  udevil mount /dev/sdd1
  udevil mount -o ro,noatime /dev/sdd1
  udevil mount -o ro,noatime /dev/sdd1 /media/usbdrive

=item ISO file:

  udevil mount /tmp/example.iso

=item FTP site (requires curlftpfs or ftpfs):

  udevil mount ftp://sys.domain

=item FTP share with user and password:

  udevil mount ftp://user:pass@sys.domain/share

=item FTP share with port, user and password:

  udevil mount ftp://user:pass@sys.domain:21/share

=item FTP site with ftpfs:

  udevil mount -t ftpfs sys.domain

=item FTP site with curl:

  udevil mount -t curlftpfs sys.domain

=item FTP site with curl user and password:

  udevil mount -t curlftpfs user:pass@sys.domain

=item NFS share:

  udevil mount nfs://sys.domain:/share
  udevil mount sys.domain:/share

=item SAMBA share with cifs:

  udevil mount smb://sys.domain/share
  udevil mount //sys.domain/share

=item SAMBA share with port, user and password:

  udevil mount smb://user:pass@10.0.0.1:50/share

=item SAMBA share with workgroup:

  udevil mount smb://WORKGROUP/user@sys.domain

=item SAMBA share with smbfs:

  udevil mount //sys.domain/share -t smbfs

=item SSH with user (requires sshfs):

  udevil mount ssh://user@sys.domain
  udevil mount -t sshfs user@sys.domain

=item WebDAV (requires davfs2):

  udevil mount http://sys.domain/dav/

=item Make a RAM drive:

  udevil mount tmpfs

=back

=over

=item B<WARNING>:

A password on the command line is UNSAFE - see filesystem docs.

=back

=head2 Unmount

=over

=item Generic:

  udevil umount /dev/sdd1
  udevil umount /media/disk
  udevil umount -l /media/disk
  udevil umount /tmp/example.iso

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<devmon(1)>

=item L<http://ignorantguru.github.io/udevil/>

Homepage.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

This manual page was written by Alexandr Savca L<mailto:alexandr.savca89@gmail.com>
for Zeppe-Lin system (but may be used by others).

=cut
