=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

btop - usage and stats for processor, gpu, memory, disks, network, and processes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<btop> [B<-lc>] [B<-t> | B<+t>] [B<-p> I<id>] [B<-u> I<ms>] [B<--utf-force>] [B<--debug>] [{B<-h> | B<--help>} | {B<-v> | B<--version>}]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

btop is a program that shows usage and stats for processor, gpu, memory, disks, network, and processes.

=head1 OPTIONS

The program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options starting with two dashes (C<->).
A summary of options is included below.

=over

=item B<-lc>, B<--low-color>

Disable truecolor, converts 24-bit colors to 256-color.

=item B<-t>, B<--tty_on>

Force (ON) tty mode, max 16 colors and tty-friendly graph symbols.

=item B<+t>, B<--tty_off>

Force (OFF) tty mode.

=item B<-p>, B<--preset> I<id>

Start with preset, integer value between 0-9.

=item B<-u>, B<--update> I<ms>

Set the program update rate in milliseconds.

=item B<--utf-force>

Force start even if no UTF-8 locale was detected.

=item B<--debug>

Start in DEBUG mode: shows microsecond timer for information collect and screen draw functions and sets loglevel to DEBUG.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Show summary of options.

=item B<-v>, B<--version>

Show version of program.

=back

=head1 BUGS

The upstream bug tracker can be found at L<https://github.com/aristocratos/btop/issues>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<top(1)>, L<htop(1)>

=head1 AUTHOR

btop was written by Jakob P. Liljenberg a.k.a. "Aristocratos".

=cut
