=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

aft-mtp-cli - command-line client utility for MTP based devices

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<aft-mtp-cli> [B<-vibehlVC>] [B<-f> I<file>] [B<-d> I<name>] [I<COMMAND> I<ARGS>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<aft-mtp-cli> is a command-line client utility for MTP based devices.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Show debug output.

=item B<-i>, B<--interactive>

Force interactive mode.

=item B<-b>, B<--batch>

Batch command processing.

=item B<-e>, B<--events>

Allow event processing.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Show help message.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Show version information.

=item B<-C>, B<--no-claim>

No USB interface claim.

=item B<-f>, B<--input-file> I<file>

Use I<file> to read input commands.

=item B<-d>, B<--device-name> I<name>

Use device name/model/manufacturer.

=item B<-l>, B<--device-list>

List devices.

=back

=head1 COMMANDS

=over

=item B<help>

Show commands help.

=item B<ls> [I<path>]

List current directory or objects in I<path> if specified.

=item B<ls-r> [I<path>]

Recursive list current directory or objects in I<path> if specified.

=item B<lsext> [I<path>]

List current directory or objects in I<path> if specified and show extended information.

=item B<lsext-r> [I<path>]

Recursive list current directory or objects in I<path> if specified and show extended information.

=item B<ls-objects> I<format>

List objects specified in HEX I<format>.

=item B<put> I<file> [I<dir>]

Upload file (to I<dir> directory if specified).

=item B<get> I<file> [I<dir>]

Download file (to I<dir> directory if specified).

=item B<get-id> I<id> [I<dest>]

Get object by I<id> (to I<dest> if specified).

=item B<get-thumb> I<file> [I<dest>]

Download thumbnail (to I<dest> if specified).

=item B<cat> I<file>

Output I<file>.

=item B<quit>

Quit program.

=item B<exit>

Exit program.

=item B<cd> I<path>

Change directory to I<path>.

=item B<storage> I<storage-name>

Change storage to I<storage-name>.

=item B<pwd>

Resolve current object directory.

=item B<rm> I<path>

Remove object.

B<WARNING: RECURSIVE, be careful!>

=item B<rm-id> I<id>

Remove object by I<id>.

B<WARNING: RECURSIVE, be careful!>

=item B<mkdir> I<path>

Make directory I<path>.

=item B<mkpath> I<path>

Make directory structure specified in I<path>.

=item B<type> I<path>

Show type of file specified by I<path> (recognized by B<libmagic/extension>).

=item B<rename> I<old> I<new>

Rename object from I<old> to I<new>.

=item B<storage-list>

Show available MTP storages.

=item B<properties> I<path>

List properties for I<path>.

=item B<device-properties>

Show devices's MTP properties.

=item B<device-info>

Show device's information.

=item B<storage-info> I<storage-id>

Show storage information.

=item B<get-refs> I<storage-id>

Show object-associated refs for storage.

=item B<test-property-list> I<path>

Test B<GetObjectPropList> on given object.

=item B<test-lexer>

Test lexer.

=back

If library supports session:

=over

=item B<zune-init>

Load media library.

=item B<zune-import> I<file>

Import I<file> using metadata.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

It is possible to use B<aft-mtp-cli> for automated file management.
There are two options of achieving this:

=over

=item 1.

Pass every command as B<single> command line argument:

	aft-mtp-cli "get Pictures" "cd Pictures" "ls"

If you need quoted argument for commands, you have to escape them:

	aft-mtp-cli "get \"Pictures\""

=item 2.

Pass B<-b> command line option and feed your script to stdin:

	aft-mtp-cli -b </path/to/myscript

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<android-file-transfer(1)>, L<aft-mtp-mount(1)>

=head1 AUTHOR

B<aft-mtp-cli> is part of B<android-file-transfer> tool written by Vladimir
Menshakov L<mailto:vladimir.menshakov@gmail.com>.

This manual page was written for Zeppe-Lin System by Alexandr Savca
L<mailto:alexandr.savca89@gmail.com>.

=cut
