=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

android-file-transfer - reliable MTP client with minimalistic UI

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<android-file-transfer> [B<-Rv>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<android-file-transfer> is a reliable MTP client with minimalistic UI.

Its features are:

=over

=item *

Simple Qt UI with progress dialogs.

=item *

FUSE wrapper, supporting partial read/writes, allowing instant access to your files.

=item *

No file size limits.

=item *

Automatically renames album cover to make it visible from media player.

=item *

Supports Zune and Zune HD.

=item *

USB L<Zerocopy|https://docs.kernel.org/networking/msg_zerocopy.html>
support found in recent Linux kernel (no user/kernel data copying).

=item *

No extra dependencies (e.g. libptp/libmtp).

=item *

Command line tool (aft-mtp-cli(1)).

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-R>

Reset device.

=item B<-v>

Debug/verbose output.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item B<FAQ>:

L<https://whoozle.github.io/android-file-transfer-linux/FAQ.html>

=item B<Issues>:

L<https://github.com/whoozle/android-file-transfer-linux/issues>

=item B<Homepage>:

L<https://whoozle.github.io/android-file-transfer-linux/>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

B<android-file-transfer> was written by Vladimir Menshakov
<mailto:vladimir.menshakov@gmail.com>.

This manual page was written for Zeppe-Lin System by Alexandr Savca
<mailto:alexandr.savca89@gmail.com>.

=head1 CAVEATS

=over

=item *

Samsung removed Android extensions from MTP, so FUSE will be available
read-only, sorry.  Feel free to post your complaints to
L<https://forum.developer.samsung.com/>.

=item *

Sometimes downloading fails with a USB timeout, after which the phone becomes
unresponsive: L<Android bug#75259|https://code.google.com/p/android/issues/detail?id=75259>.

=item *

Objects created in the UI will not show up in the FUSE filesystem:
L<Android bug #169547|https://code.google.com/p/android/issues/detail?id=169547>.

=back

=cut
